.TH FICTIONUP 1

.SH NAME
fictionup \- markdown to FB2 converter.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY fictionup
.OP \-\-version
.OP \-h|\-\-help
.OP \-m meta_tag:meta_value
.OP \-z
.OP \-o output_file.fb2|output_dir
.RI [ input_file.md ]
.YS

.SH DESCRIPTION
fictionup converts markdown formatted document to FB2 XML file.

If no input file name was provided or input file name is '\-', standard input stream will be used for input.
If no output file name was provided and standart input stream is used for input,
or output file name is '\-', standart output stream will be used for output.
If only the input file name was provided, output file name will be constructed from input
by replacing '.md' or '.markdown' extension by '.fb2'.
If output file name is empty string ('' or ""), the output file will be placed in the same directory
where the input file resides, instead of current working directory.

fictionup supports a limited set of FB2 meta information tags, which are required to produce valid documents.

FB2 meta information must be provided using YAML data blocks in a markdown document
or by '-m' command line switch. YAML data block starts with the line containing '\-\-\-'
(exactly 3 minus signs) and ends with the similarly formatted line or with '...'
(exactly 3 dots).

.SH META INFORMATION EXAMPLE
.EX
\-\-\-
Title: The Book
Author: A. Writer
Year: 2019
Annotation: This book is awesome!
Cover: cover.jpg
fb2\-author: B. Converter
fb2\-id: doc\-001
fb2\-version: 1.0
fb2\-date: 2019
\-\-\-
.EE

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-version
\-\ print a version information;
.TP
.BI \-h|\-\-help
\-\ print a short help;
.TP
.BI \-m \ meta_tag:meta_value
\-\ add a meta information to the document;
.TP
.BI \-z
\-\ compress the output file using ZIP format (produce .fb2.zip);
.TP
.BI \-o
\-\ specify the output file name or directory.

.SH FILES
Default meta information values may be specified in configuration file 'default.yaml'.
Possible locations for this file are:
.IP *
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/fictionup/default.yaml
.IP *
.I $HOME/.config/fictionup/default.yaml

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2017-2019 Vadim Druzhin <cdslow@mail.ru>

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

.SH AUTHOR
Vadim Druzhin <cdslow@mail.ru>
